---
title:  "1000 Words a Day"
date:   2015-08-03 2:23:00
description: Hemingway
---

The hardest part of writing 1000 words a day is finding something to write about. I need to start doing the work to stack up enough bricks to feel like I am contributing to the world so here is day one. The goal will be to take the next day to write 1000 more words, repeating until either I have felt like I contributed whatever I need to and want to stop, or until I simply cannot type 1000 words any longer.

I am also under the impression that 1000 words cannot simply be replaced by a photograph. I think that is more due to my lack of photography skills than anything.

So today, on day one of this journey, what do I have to say?

Today feels like one of those turning point days. You know where you find out what you have been doing for the last few years needs to be completely uprooted, burned, and spread around the ground to provide nutrients for the next thing to grow? One of those days.

I had the third large proposal fall through this week. One was completely out of our hands as the customer didn't want to invest in a third-party system option required for the project to function. The second seemed to be a huge miscommunication between us and the customer. They seemed extremely excited about the project, my presentation, and had discussed their frustrations with one particular software package. When they then asked for a second proposal using that software package I was a bit baffled, but obliged. Fast forward a few weeks to no news, no response to voicemails, and a general sense of frustration on my end. Finally they responded to one of my emails with a thanks but no thanks reply. The line about hopefully considering us for future projects seemed a bit crass. That's like telling someone you don't want to date them because someone else was better, then coming back to ask you do date them when that falls through. Thanks, but no thanks.

The other proposal seems to have just been lost in bureaucratic purgatory never to been heard from again. 

What is different about these projects than any others? I have no idea. I've lost much smaller projects for the same reasons, and have beat out much larger companies on similar projects in the past.

I'm not sure if it is just a matter of bad timing, poor salesmanship, or simply taking the horse to water and them not wanting to drink. I think my feelings of things falling through have drastically changed in the last few years which is a good thing.

Instead of feeling sad I lost a project and moping, my feeling now is to take these rejections, tell the people (in my head of course, no need to burn a bridge) to fuck off, and double down on my efforts to find the next one. I want to be so successful that if things worked out karmically, I could tell them I can't find the time to work with them when they come knocking. More realistically I know it then becomes more of a drop in the bucket kind of thing, and I will likely never hear from them again, which is fine too.

The tough part to wrap my brain around is that I simply want to give these companies the best tools to help them do whatever it is that they do better. I charge them a fair price, over deliver on information so they can make the right choice, and still get questions that tell me they didn't listen to a word I said.

Is that a matter of needing to weed out the people I talk to and only talk to the right ones? I have no idea.

The second component is that there is so much conflicting information on sales out there. The sales people I talk to all say cold calling is terrible, but the SDRs of the world, the Saleslofts, and the SalesForces, all seem to say you need to be knocking down the numbers.

It is now going to be a matter of dialing the numbers, sending out the emails, and finding those people who will give me an at bat.

Is it going to be hard? Yes. I will probably feel rejected, miserable, and more frustrated than I ever have in my life. When I do land the first one, it will be such a greater high than any of the projects so far that I won't even be able to believe it. 

Then it will be a matter of finding the time to continue the outreach, find the energy to manage other people to help out on the calls, and figure out the process all over again.

I will get there. I have a lot to learn. It will be a painful process, but it will be a rewarding one too.

Are cold calls shit? Maybe, but maybe they don't have to be. Someone out there is making a crapload of difference in the world because of their tenacity to push the 10 numbers on the phone no matter how frustrating it might be.

Once the ball is rolling, it will be easier. I will figure out the process and make it my own. 

The motto for the rest of 2015 is: "Do It. Whatever it takes. Make it work and don't give up. When it sucks let it suck, when it is amazing, let it be amazing. They are both sides of the same coin. Keep flipping that coin and eventually you will get to good at it it will always land on heads, or tails, whichever is the one you pick that day."

58 words to go. That wasn't so hard. I now feel more amped up to push through the frustration, pull up LinkedIn and find some people to bother tomorrow.

The worst thing that happens is I get to hang up on them because they are being abusive and yelling at me. The best thing that happens is I get to start a new relationship. Anywhere in between is only as scary as I want it to be.