---
title:  "Mastery"
date:   2015-08-04 2:23:00
description: The process of learning
---

Something I learned about long ago was the concept of mastery.

Basically mastery is the process one goes through from being a complete beginner in a subject area or at a task, learns all there is to know about it and has to whatever degree is possible "mastered" what they are focused on.

I personally don't feel like I have mastered anything in my life. I am really good at some things, with some glaring holes in my knowledge, at least from my perspective. In some way, this is the foundation of what mastery means. When I ask someone who I think has mastered something how to get to where they are, because they know so much, they will inevitably tell me a laundry list of things they have no idea about. In much the same way as I feel like I have mastered nothing, they feel as though they have mastered nothing. Everything you learn gets you to where you are. In front of you is an endless array of new things to learn.

Take for example my path through Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. I have been doing it for almost a year now, and each time I go, I feel like I have made little or no progress. If I were to look back at where I was on day one I would see a huge degree of improvement, but each time I go I find a hundred different new ways to get completely smashed. Sure I learn a little bit each time, but with something like Jiu Jitsu, the width of everything I need to learn to be a master means I have barely put a drop of water on the field.

Are there ways around this? Sure, take the Tim Ferriss approach to Jiu Jitsu, learn one thing deeply and focus on that. Sure you won't be able to get out of some situations if you don't have the requisite knowledge, but if you can get really good at making the one move happen it doesn't matter.

Maybe that is a better approach to learning. Find a particular piece of the puzzle and instead of learning a little bit of it, go super deep. Learn all there is to know about that piece, and then move on to the next piece. This would be akin to stacking bricks starting at the left side of the wall and working right. Stack them all the way to the ceiling and then stack the next column. The problem with this is when you need to mesh each column together and the bricks need to be taken apart to make room for the new ones. Contrast this to the approach of building one layer, then another and so on. Each layer builds on one another until you have a wall. Either way is the same result, just a different path to get there.

Today is a 500 word day. Bargaining with myself over the years has taught me that if I set a goal of 1000 and can't hit it it is easy to instead do 0 words and start over tomorrow. If I set a minimum of 500 as success it will at least get me to sit down and write. I can keep going on my streak, still produce work, and not feel like a total failure.

Maybe the thing I have mastered in my life so far is me.